# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Green Belt

You qualified for a Green Belt 🥋🟢 and got a final grade of 4.67/6 for M1. Great job! You're building solid foundations. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 4.74 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 4.75 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 4 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 4.5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 5.5 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **4.67 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

- Avoid hard coded text/values (unclear if it's a placeholder or missed plant detection for example) and same for nonfunctional buttons (display a toast like: "Feature not yet available").
- Design is not responsive (when we turn the phone in landscape mode).
- There is a blank screen which has the same icon as the profile page in the navbar, it is a bit unclear (seen in the APK that you linked in your wiki)
- Sonar is correctly integrated in the repo
- The tests are run by the CI
- There is at least one meaningful end-to-end test
- The line coverage on M1 code is 84
- The wiki is complete with pertinent information
- conventions are present in the wiki
- PR descriptions are not all following the guidelines that you proposed in your wiki

For this part, you received 4.74 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

- Tasks are supposed to be implemented in a single PR. For example Profile Data should be splitted into smaller tasks (One for UI, one for Backend, ...) to avoid a single massive one that is hard to review.
- All the estimation are at 600 minutes, you could try to make a more precise/personalized guess depending on the kind of implementation.

- User stories are well defined and described
- State of the user stories are tagged

For this part, you received 4.75 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.

- Wireframes are missing, this should be done before the mockups to have a global idea of your app's structure
- The testTags can be in a separate file from the app mockup
- The figma does not reflect the current app -> some inconsistencies in menus and design
- The user flows (when you click play) are a bit broken and you could rename them to represent better what they are simulating
- Your current app (at least the one in the APK) did not have the same layout, try to have both matching

For this part, you received 4 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

- Sign in is working with Firebase, and it is not represented in your diagram. Same for notification, it is linked with nothing
- Be more descriptive in the labeling: What is "Online plant data" ? Firestore? 
- Could anticipate a bit more the future state of your app

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.

- Sheets are filled on time
- Good self evaluation and realistic conclusions

- Leading well the meeting 
- Profesional behaviour
- Dynamic and efficient meeting

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 4.67. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!


