# SwEnt M2 Team Grading Report

The M2 feedback provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on how well your team has applied good software engineering practices, delivered user value, and collaborated effectively. We assessed the quality and maintainability of your implementation, the clarity of your design, and the consistency of your delivery and teamwork across Sprints. An important component is how much you have progressed since the previous milestone. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document. As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

## Blue Belt

You qualified for a Blue Belt 🥋🔵 and got a final grade of 5.16/6 for M2. Excellent work! You're demonstrating advanced skills. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into six categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                                   | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, code quality)**   | 4.7 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-code-quality) |
| **Features**                             | 5.5 out of 6   | 20%        | [See Details](#features)                  |
| **Figma and Architecture Diagram**       | 5.25 out of 6 | 10%     | [See Details](#figma-and-architecture-diagram) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog**     | 5.5 out of 6    | 10%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)**  | 6 out of 6 | 10%       | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents-autonomy) |
| **Consistent Delivery of Value**         | 5 out of 6 | 10%      | [See Details](#consistent-delivery-of-value) |
| **Final Grade**                          | **5.16 out of 6**   |            |                                           |

In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

---

## Implementation (APK, code quality)

We evaluated your APK’s functionality, stability, and user experience, along with the quality and consistency of your code. We also reviewed your CI setup, Sonar integration, and tests, including the presence of at least two meaningful end-to-end tests and the line coverage achieved.

UI/UX:
- Dropdown menu of country does not disappear ("hangs" in a weird spot)
- Toast "Failed to load plant" appearing each time we go to the garden screen, even if we do not have plants.
- "Give camera access" UI could be refined so it's intuitive to click on it 
- The user should not be able to put a future date in "last time watered" (logic).
- It could be great to sepparate the profile on another screen.

Bugs:
- When on "Create new profile screen", double-clicking on back button goes to the Garden screen even without saving the profile info. 
- We can go back to the sign in screen by clicking on back button from the camera page.
- When logging out, pressing back button logs the user back in and navigates to the garden screen.

Crashes:
- After taking a picture of a plant and press next button, the app crashes sometimes.


Code quality: 
- In MainActivity.kt file, routeToScreen function can be separated in another file, since it's pure navigation logic. -> Try to keep MainActivity clean.
- Fix typos in folders
- You have a lot of Sonar issues

For this part, you received 4.7 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Features

We evaluated the features implemented in this milestone. We looked for the completion of at least one epic, as well as the use of at least one public cloud service, one phone sensor, and a concept of authentication.
We assessed how well the implemented features align with the app’s objectives, integrate with existing functionality, and contribute to delivering clear user value.

The features you implemented are well put together, but you could try to add some new screens in the app to make it a bit bigger.

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma and Architecture Diagram

We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure. 

- Make sure you update the Figma before creating new screens in the app. The idea is for Figma to stay ahead of the app so you always have a clear visual guide for how the app should look.
-In plant info screen, one tab is missing, incoherence with the app.
- The UI is good but can be refined for better UX.
- In the architecture diagram, some screens are not connected to anything -> to avoid

For this part, you received 5.25 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them. We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

- Some task titles are not really clear
- Tasks descriptions are filled in and clear explanation
- Product Backlog is really good.
- One user story's acceptance criteria is not met: "The user can choose a location (e.g., room, balcony) and it is saved with the plant."

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process (documents, autonomy)

We evaluated your ability to autonomously run and document the Scrum process. We looked at how well you documented your team Stand-Ups and Retrospectives for each Sprint. We also assessed your level of autonomy in organizing and conducting these ceremonies, defining and prioritizing user stories in your Product Backlog, and planning well-scoped Sprint tasks that lead to concrete, valuable increments.



For this part, you received 6 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Consistent Delivery of Value

We reviewed your team’s ability to deliver meaningful increments of value at the end of each Sprint.  
We assessed whether your progress was steady, visible, and tied to concrete user value and app functionality, in line with your Product Backlog objectives.

- Your app starts to take shape and we are really looking forward to see what it will become. You could aim to release at least a new feature (UI + backend) per sprint, so that your app is consistently evolving.


For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M2 is 5.16/6. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Keep up the good work and good luck for the next milestone!